# Branching Synth Graph

- UGen graph builder collects all branches (including the main branch)
  as separate `UGenGraph` instances.
- The caller will run all `Synth` instances within a `Group`, thus 
  controls can simply retain their names if used across multiple 
  branches.

## Monitoring the (accumulated) branch condition

See `Resume.scala`. We set up two synths, the main branch using
`Pause` to start and stop the conditional branch. The conditional
branch reads a control (mapped to a bus and written by the main
branch) to receive information about it being resumed.

## Expanding across multiple sub-graphs

We start with one `SynthGraph`, and a special builder that will take
care of introducing boundaries between the sub-graphs. We store
the branch information in a self-contained `SynthGraph` for each
case. When referring to elements from the outer context, these
will still end up in the arguments of elements stored in these
sub-graphs. Special care must thus be taken

- when using serialisation
- when using UGen graph expansion

Let's solve serialisation later and focus on graph expansion first,
i.e. `IfGEImpl.makeUGens`:

- (to-do - refined version:) try to resolve the `cond` at
  this point to a plain `Boolean`, and if successful, directly
  boil down the branch without nesting. 
- it will check the `UGen.builder` for a more specific type that 
  supports nesting the graphs.
- it (or the builder) will allocate the necessary infra-structure
  for branching: a control for communicating the branch's synth
  node id, a control for the bus on which the `resume` signal will
  be communicated.
- it will then run the expansion on the `branch` argument within
  a nested context (possibly the same UGen graph builder but with
  a nesting level incremented)

## Referring to an element from the outer context

    val amp: GE = ???
    If (cond) Then {
      Out.ar(0, SinOsc.ar(441) * amp
    }
    
Since we use the nesting, they `Lazy.Expander` call
`b.visit(ref, makeUGens)` may be detected by the special UGen
graph builder, finding the expanded UGen in an outer context.
If may then add an `Out` and a bus-control to the graph of the
outer context and an `In` and a bus-control to the graph of the
inner context, and return that as the expanded signal.

Using the `IfGE` as a `GE` in the following statements of the outer
context is more difficult. We would need to "elevate" the expanding
element from the call site.
 
    val res: GE = If (cond) Then {
      SinOsc.ar(441)
    } Else {
      WhiteNoise.ar
    }
    // --- barrier ---
    Out.ar(0, res)

Alternative syntax:

    val f = Fork (cond)(...)); Join(f) { res => Out.ar(0, res) }

What we could do is distinguish between the `.force` calls on the top-
level when iterating over `graph.sources`, and nested `.force` calls.
I.e, on the top level we "restore" the nesting level to zero for each
call. In the nesting we may then increment that level "ad-hoc" when
encountering the `IfGE`. Then basically the whole call-tree would
end up in the next level, i.e. in the above example just `Out`. If
we had `Out.ar("bus".kr, res)` then it may be possible that 
`"bus.kr"` was already expanded before and thus cannot end up in the
new level. Then there are two options:

- We re-expand. (it might be cheap)
- We insert a "pipe" using again an `Out`/`In` pair.
 
Note that there is no way to prevent the early expansion of the bus
argument, because the programmer may always write

    val bus = "bus".kr
    Out.ar(bus, res)
    
One might contemplate iterating over the top-level `sources` in the
reverse order, thus expanding `Out` first. However, this may again
introduce a new problem, e.g. if `bus` is used twice, and we go
from inner nesting level to outer nesting level. We cannot "move"
the expanded object in that case back to the outer level.

A possible improvement is a heuristic that estimates the cost of a
branch, such as `"bus".kr`, and if it is low and has no side-effects,
we may then duplicate that branch, and it would even be deleted
automatically from the outer context if there is no second sink.
On the other hand, the costs of `Out/In` are probably very low, the
main problem being still the number of interconnecting buses needed.

We must also remove `IfGE` from the top-level expansion, i.e. when
iterating over `graph.sources`. Or rather, since they may produce
purely side-effects, these elements must be expanded also on the 
top-level, but at the very end of the iteration.

Another possibility is to expand the `IfGE` in their original position
within the `sources`, and increment the nesting level here. In the 
end, the nesting level is nothing but the linear order of the synths,
so it does not matter whether we "skip" levels, etc. The only thing
that is important is that `IfGE` saves and restores the nesting level
during its own `branch` expansion. (Correct?) (Anyway, nesting
if-else blocks is a feature not yet considered here at all)

So as a sketch:

    level = 0
    val amp: GE = ???
    begin-if-expansion
      level += 1
        expand branch
      level += 1
    end-if-expansion
    val bus = "bus".kr  // level == 2 here
    Out.ar(bus, res * amp)

Where the reference to `amp` in the last line will either create
a new instance of that control (if heuristics determine it's cheap,
e.g. by checking for a control-proxy), or pipe an earlier expanded
element. In fact, the best algorithm would be to determine at this
point if an earlier expanded element is erased because it is
side-effect free.

So if we just have "linearly progressing layers", we could run the
no-op-branch-elimination of the sub-trees
_as soon as we increment the layer_? Because we never decrease the
level any longer in this last version of the procedure? On the other
hand it would be stupid to enforce a graph split if we had an
interspersed `If[Unit]`.

--------------

But. An `IfGE` will not be used except for its return value.
Therefore, it should in all well-defined cases, follow an element
that must be in a higher level. We can thus just define that this
type of if-block increases the level, and the programmer would be
aware of this, and can decide whether he/she wants to place other
elements before the if-block or not. I.e., the algorithm also does
not have to be infinitely smart. An `If[Unit]` block then can
indeed return to the previous level upon exiting its expansion.

So this should be the approach for the first implementation.