# IfLag

The first problem is that we cannot use an 'always high' signal
for the branch selection because since the child is paused, it
will only ever see that high value and thus not retrigger. That's
why with `If` we use a single impulse now. With `IfLag` we know
(or the designer is responsible and knows) that there is going to
be time to receive a gate change from high to low before the node
actually pauses. We have thus two possibilities:

- go back from trigger (`Delay1(x) sig_!= x`) to a gate (`x sig_== y`).
- send a second trigger

The second case is probably better because it means we can move
between `If` and `IfLag` without too much thought on the behavioural
change of `ThisBranch`. Plus the branch can now easily use a
`ToggleFF` to get a gate signal. And the second trigger is already
implemented because we use just one bus for all children.
The disadvantage are are

- the meaning of `ThisBranch` is conjured
- the branch needs extra effort to distinguish the two triggers

Taking that into account, it may well be better to send the branch-id
again and on the receiving end do the `sig_==` comparison. Wherever
`ThisBranch` was used as a trigger, it should still work with the
opening of the gate.

## Transition

The more difficult question is the blocking of changing signals
during release, and the delay of the `Pause` actions.

The phase diagram is like this:

    branch-idx: aaaaaaaaabacabbbbbbbbbbbbacbcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
                         |               |
                ?        +--change issued, gate closes
                |        |  hold dur = 4 |
    gate:       11111111100001111111111110000111111111111111 
                0000
    (latched)      
    held-idx:   aaaaaaaaabbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
    
    pause 0:    00000000000001111111111111111000000000000000
    
    pause 1:    11111111111110000000000000000111111111111111
                                             *
    held seen 0:1111111110000                111111111111111
    
    held seen 1:             1111111111110000
    
The question is for child 0, if it properly sees a trigger at
point `*` (the second time it is resumed)? It would appear so
because any previous UGen state had been left at zero before.

This works as long as `lag-dur >= ControlDur`. We can clip the
value to ensure this. If the lag-time is given as a `GE` argument,
we also need to freeze that during hold? Since the `held-idx` is
not a binary signal now but a bit-field, we cannot use `TDelay`.
We will need to use `DelayN`? This was init-time maximum delay
parameter, so anyway we should restrict the lag time parameter to
scalar rate (e.g. feeding through `DC.kr`).

## Algorithm

- We create common basis of `If` and `IfLag`, with a flag for lag use.
We change between trigger and gate signal in condition-out and
condition-in (do we still have `thisBranch` code or are we just
looking for the `Link`?)
- We fix the lag time at scalar rate, clipped to be at least of
`ControlDur` duration.
- We use `Latch` to sample and hold the branch index. The trigger
is a `Trig1` of the `Delay1(x) sig_!= x` signal, with the trigger
duration set to the lag time.


    val condAcc: GE = ???
    val condChange = Delay1.kr(condAcc) sig_!= condAcc
    val condChHold = Trig1.kr(condChange, lagDur)
    val heldAcc = Latch.kr(condAcc, condChHold)
    val heldDly = DelayN.kr(heldAcc, lagDur)
    
    def pause(branchIdx: Int) = {
      val heldMask = heldDly & ((1 << (branchIdx + 1)) - 1)
      val heldEq = heldMask sig_== (1 << branchIdx)
      Pause.kr(gate = heldEq, node = nodeCtl.ir)
    }
    
Looking at the current implementation, that means we should not
work with incremental `condAcc` values, but completely calculate
the entire `condAcc` first. This requires an additional `bitAnd`
operation (for the first branch),
however it saves us from needing more than one `DelayN`.

## Initial State

Then the last problem to solve is the initial state. The `DelayN` will
be empty, i.e. zero, at the beginning.

Note that `condAcc` is never zero, so we have a guaranteed initial
impulse from the difference trigger, implying that the latch will
also be triggered at time zero. Implying that the first `lagDur`
values will be identical. Then we can simply change the delay
time with a step function from zero to `lagDur` (or, if that's easier,
using a `Line` from zero to `lagDur`).

__Correction:__ `Delay1` copies the first input sample to the first
output sample, so for an input sequence (A, B, C), you get an output
sequence (A, A, B, C) - not (0, A, B, C). With `DelayN` you would get
zeroes. That means the above assumption does _not_ hold, the first
change trigger might only occur at the second sample frame, 
which doesn't make any sense.

### Resolution attempt 1 (failed)

Thus:
- Use `HPZ1` instead of `Delay1`. __Bummer:__ `HPZ1` has the same problem
- If then a latch at time zero kicks in, we can get the 
  correctly delayed signal as 
  `dly + in * Impulse.ar(0)`

### Resolution attempt 2 (failed)

It seems many UGens are either buggy or with so strange behaviour for
initial state, that rather than creating some esoteric work-arounds,
we should simply give up and add an explicit `Impulse.kr(0)` trigger,
and that's it. So

    val condAcc: GE = ???
    val t0         = Impulse.kr(0)
    val condChange = (Delay1.kr(condAcc) sig_!= condAcc) + t0
    val condChHold = Trig1.kr(condChange, lagDur)
    val heldAcc    = Latch.kr(condAcc, condChHold)
    val heldDly    = DelayN.kr(heldAcc, lagDur) + heldAcc * t0
    
However, there is a bug with the interaction between `Impulse.kr(0)`
and `Trig1.kr` that produces a wrong hold time.

### Resolution attempt 3 (failed)

The phase diagram is like this:

    branch-idx: aaaaaaaaabacabbbbbbbbbbbbacbcaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
                         |               |
                ?        +--change issued, gate closes
                |        |  hold dur = 4 |
    gate:       11111111100001111111111110000111111111111111 
                0000
    (latched)      
    held-idx:   aaaaaaaaabbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
    
    pause 0:    00000000000001111111111111111000000000000000
    
    pause 1:    11111111111110000000000000000111111111111111
                                             *
    held seen 0:1111111110000                111111111111111
    
    held seen 1:             1111111111110000

So, let's delay "early":

    val condAcc: GE = ???
    val t0         = Impulse.kr(0)
    val condAccDly = DelayN.kr(condAcc, lagDur) + condAcc * t0
    val condChange = Delay1.kr(condAccDly) sig_!= condAcc + t0
    val condChHold = Trig1.kr(condChange, lagDur)
 
 _No_, that doesn't work, because `held seen` in the diagram will
 now be wrong (they will be `branch-idx-seen`.
 
### Resolution attempt 4 (failed)

Note, the following does work correctly with `Trig1`, even for
`n == 1`:

    def k2a_SH(in: GE) = Latch.ar(in, Impulse.ar(ControlRate.ir))
    
    val x = gui {
        val condAcc: GE = "cond".kr(1)
        val n          = 1
        val lagDur     = (n + 0.1) * ControlDur.ir
        val t0         = Impulse.kr(0)
        val hold       = Trig1.kr(t0, lagDur)
        k2a_SH(hold)
     }
    
    x.waveform (duration = 64/(s.sampleRate/64))

The next problem is this: `Trig1` keeps outputting one for a
continuously changing signal, i.e. we don't get to trigger `Latch`
again, although we should after `lagDur`. In other words, we need
to exchange `Trig1` for a UGen that simply drops triggers for
`lagDur`, not keeping the signal high, but emitting just the first
trigger as a single impulse.

### Resolution attempt 5

So to filter a trigger stream, we use `SetResetFF(in, TDelay(in, dur))`.
Still the problem remains that we to ensure that condChange does not
stay clamped to one. And `(Delay1.kr(condAcc) sig_!= condAcc)` clearly
allows that to happen.

However, it appears that no solution to this can be found that does
not involve feedback and thus at least a delay of one block. We can
enforce a maximum frequency of change on `condChange`, so that each
two successive values must be the same, essentially lowering the
rate from `ControlRate` to `ControlRate/2`.

We can forbid this on the user level, i.e. we simply assume that the
branching signal will _not_ continuously change, and if that would be
the case (which is a extremely unlikely scenario), it is the user's 
responsibility to limit the rate, allowing new "set" pulses to appear
at the `SetResetFF`.

    val condAcc: GE = ???
    val t0         = Impulse.kr(0)
    val condChange = (Delay1.kr(condAcc) sig_!= condAcc) + t0
    val condChDly  = TDelay.kr(condChange, lagDur)
    val condChHold = SetResetFF.kr(condChange, condChDly)
    val heldAcc    = Latch.kr(condAcc, condChHold)
    val heldDly0   = DelayN.kr(heldAcc, lagDur, lagDur)
    val heldDly    = heldDly0 + heldAcc * (heldDly0 sig_== 0)
    
The following test shows empirically that we will never lose any
of the last entered values if we keep waiting:

    val x = play {
      val condAcc: GE = "acc".kr(1)
      val t0         = Impulse.kr(0)
      val n          = 4
      val lagDur     = (n + 0.1) * ControlDur.ir
      val condChange = (Delay1.kr(condAcc) sig_!= condAcc) + t0
      val condChDly  = TDelay.kr(condChange, lagDur)
      val condChPunch= condChange // - condChDly
      val condChHold = SetResetFF.kr(condChPunch, condChDly)
      val heldAcc    = Latch.kr(condAcc, condChHold)
      val heldDly0   = DelayN.kr(heldAcc, lagDur, lagDur)
      val heldDly    = heldDly0 + heldAcc * (heldDly0 sig_== 0)
      heldDly.poll(1, "out")
    }
    
    x.set("acc" -> 2)
    x.set("acc" -> 3)
    x.set("acc" -> 4)  // etc. keep sending new values
