# If-Branching: Return Signal

## GE

`IfGEImpl.makeUGens` simply forwards to the graph builder via `expandIfGE`.
We might want to distinguish between the 'flat' call from iteration and
`.force` and the call from another `GE` that uses the output of the
branches. Because the branches may have side-effects, we will always
want to call `.force` on the `IfGE`, but we won't necessarily want to
follow up on the return signal if it is not used. 

Therefore we can use the nesting capability of synth graphs. We cannot
nest in `makeUGens` because this will keep expanding. But we can split
`IfGEImpl` into two `GE` components, the "branch" one that is also
invoked by `.force` and the "result" one that we skip during `.force`,
or that in fact can simply be a `GE` that does not register itself,
i.e. that is not a `GE.Lazy`, so it will only be expanded by
dependents.

## Expansion

We then have, in the general case, `A.force -> B.expand -> IfResult.expand`
which happen from the main body (theoretically they could also come
from a successive `If` entity). And `A` and `B` have already
expanded other arguments on that main body.

Possibilities:

- use exceptions for control-flow and re-call `.force` from a sub-graph.
  Clear **disadvantage:** makes it very hard to derive other graph builders,
  e.g. in SoundProcesses. Also: difficult to clean up side effects, 
  already expanded args might remain in main body as useless UGens that
  will then be unnecessarily linked through a bus.
- we raise the level as soon as we encounter `IfResult.expand`. I.e. we 
  have a peer builder and change it now. So adding the UGens by the
  dependents will happen already in the child builder.
  **Advantage:** It's rather transparent, and unused if-results will
  not enforce a graph split. **Disadvantage:** Unclear how we can
  manage already expanded arguments of caller. Like in `amp * res0` we
  might have expanded `amp`, and then we create an incomplete
  structure.
- (see TR). the `IfResult` will always appear before its dependents. 
  If we do use `GE.Lazy`, We can use its encounter in the `.force` 
  iteration to lift the level E.g., in `Scenario.scala`, we would have 
  this order:
  `amp`, `freq`, `IfGE`/`IfResult`, `res0 * amp`, `Pan2`, `Out`.
  **Advantage:** this would be easy to accommodate in derived graph
  builders. **Disadvantage:** We would raise the level even if
  the result is not used.
  
Clearly, the least problematic approach is the last one. The detection
of whether the result is used or not (only its side-effects) boils down
to a syntax problem and not an architectural problem.

On second thought, the programmer can make `Unit` explicit, e.g.
by appending `()` to a `GE` that is otherwise used only for its
side-effect, e.g. `.poll`. So we will just implement the third idea,
and we do not need to distinguish between `IfBody` and `IfResult`

## Expansion - Implementation

The best approach now is to implement `IfGEImpl` as a custom combination
of `GE` and `Lazy`. We distinguish between `force` and `expand`.
From the  above discussion, we assume that `expandIfGE` is called from 
the `.force` iteration. We expand the branches as in the current 
version. There is no specific result value for `.force`. Then `expand`
calls another new method on the graph builder that does something
similar to `tryRefer`, adding the link and creating the `In`. An
`Out` is not necessary, because we have built `Out` components for
each branch already in `expandIfGE`. We could do away with that
and use the regular `tryRefer`, but the problem here is that we
need to have multiple `Out` instances, so probably this variant is
easier to maintain.
syss